Republican candidates continue battling
it out in primaries across the u.s. in
hopes of challenging President Obama for
the top job but recent Gallup polls
suggest Americans may not be satisfied
with having only two choices with around
forty percent considering themselves
independents SRT's got a cheeky on
reports most US citizens think the
bipartisan system could be outdated in
American politics three is a crowd
through a string of primaries two
parties present their candidates for the
President of the United States Americans
are accustomed to having two teams they
watch football games baseball games and
basketball where there's one team
against the other team that's kind of
the way they see politics as well I
think it affects their thinking they
think there's only two choices
Republicans and Democrats they've just
grown accustomed to that two team
mentality but according to a gallup poll
a record number of Americans forty
percent now identify themselves as
political independence there are many
people who have expressed
dissatisfaction with the current system
but they seem resigned to the notion
that those people who are currently in
positions of power are not going to walk
any sort of change and that we're not
likely to see change anytime soon for an
independent or a third party candidate
getting on a general election ballot is
considered a doomed task in the US Ralph
Nader an independent a renowned lawyer
consumer rights advocate ran for the
presidency six times it's harder to get
on the ballot in this country Nate by
far any Western democracy 50 different
state laws hundreds of different County
laws it's a total nightmare created by
the two parties to avoid competition
it's basically to party elected
dictatorship we call it a duopoly and
they're all fighting ferociously over
who's going to go to the White House and
so they can take up residence and take
the orders from their corporate
paymasters some analysts say the system
works in a way to avoid any real change
in the way America's governed
and special interests play a special
role the extended primary process we
have in the u.s. gives special interests
like Millie military contractors or
others it gives them time to monitor the
election process and put in resources to
attack anyone who's not going you know
who's not going to give folks that her
favorables favorable to them so it does
make it hard for an outsider to surprise
the establishment some believe
congressman Ron Paul would fare better
as an independent as his distinctly anti
war rhetoric distances him from the
other Republican frontrunner political
experts say someone like Paul stands no
chance of winning a nomination because
at the end of the day the two parties
always deliver a mainstream candidate
presented with just two choices many
Americans vote not for who they see as
president but against the one they don't
like a lot of people don't necessarily
vote for who they like a lot of people
vote Republican because they don't like
the Democrats or they'll vote Democrat
because they don't like or they're
scared of the Republican so lots of
times you have Americans voting for the
lesser of two evils who is the lesser of
two bounds many see the way candidates
are picked in the US is a safeguard
against drastic change but as the
discontent among Americans grows over
the country's foreign policy over
corporate controlled economy so gross
the push for fresh ideas and bold
actions but the question is will the
system allow in those who could break
the much-loved than much cherished
business as usual Washington mold I'm
kind of check out reporting from
Washington RT